Description
------------
WipeCMOS is simply designed to clear all CMOS settings to recover from lost
passwords or corrupt BIOS settings.


Installation
------------
WipeCMOS does not need to be installed.


Instructions
------------
WipeCMOS works best when it is run from real mode DOS although it will also
operate under DOS protected mode.

DOS Versions 3.2 to 6.22
------------------------
If you are running DOS you can enter real mode by holding down the left shift
key at first boot to bypass system settings.

Windows Versions 3.0/3.1/3.11
-----------------------------
If you are running Windows 3.xx you can enter real mode DOS by holding down
the left shift key at first boot to bypass system settings.

Windows 95/98
-------------
If you are running Windows 9x you can enter real mode DOS by pressing F8
at boot and selecting the option "Safe mode command prompt only" from the
boot menu.

Windows Millennium
------------------
If you are running Windows Millennium you can use "Minimal Boot" option of
the emergency boot disk to enter real mode DOS.

Windows NT or Windows 2000
--------------------------
If you are running Windows NT or Windows 2000 make a bootable DOS floppy
disk or use a DOS setup disk to gain access to real mode DOS.


To run WipeCMOS type "WIPECMOS" (Without the quotes) and press the return
key at the DOS command prompt after which you will be given the following
three options.

1. [S] key to attempt a safe CMOS wipe
2. [W] key to wipe all CMOS settings
3. [Esc] key to quit

The "Safe Wipe" option works by attempting to identify your BIOS and only
writes to specific areas of the CMOS RAM.  This is by far the safest way
to wipe the CMOS but if your BIOS is not correctly identified by WipeCMOS
it may fail to remove the passwords even though the default BIOS settings
are restored.  The "Wipe CMOS" option works by writing zero's to all CMOS
RAM addresses. Although this method will remove all current BIOS settings
(including passwords) it can cause problems with some modern motherboards.

ALWAYS TRY THE SAFE WIPE OPTION FIRST !!!


WARNING !!!
When using the "Wipe CMOS" option all current CMOS settings will be lost
including the date/time and CPU settings. This can cause some motherboards
that have the CPU speed settings in the BIOS to freeze up at first boot or
even disable the power-on button (ATX) preventing you from restarting your
computer. This problem occurs because the hardware settings are now all set
to zero which in most cases will be outside their normal operating range.

The only way that the above situation can be fixed is by forcing the BIOS
to restore the CMOS to default factory settings.  The way to achieve this
is by altering the "Clear CMOS" jumper on the motherboard or by removing
the CMOS backup battery for several hours.

If in doubt check the documentation that came with the motherboard.


Disclaimer
----------

Use at your own risk !


